Preface
=======

Asa Huang, a classical Chinese literary professor in Harbin institute of
Shenzhen, once told her students that the careless life has an ending,
which is unexpected, but it has an ending. Her story goes like as this:

When I was at campus pursuing the master degree, I always go along with
my two roommates, also my best friends at that time. We were so happy
that we believed that we would still be good friends after graduation.
However, the reality is that even if we were in the same city, it is too
hard to have a reunion. One of my friend stayed at the Beijing Normal
University for doctor degree while I went to Tsinghua. But we seldom
met. After the doctoral graduation, we would part and the reality is
that we became friends of wechat moment. I still remember clearly the
situation when she asked me to give her a dedication to her notebook
before I went to Shenzhen. I wrote down that:

To memorize the best times of our adolescence. (in Chinese,
纪念我们最好的青春。)

She disagreed with my inscription.

\"Why the best, do we have less happy times now and in the future? \"

I was inspired and watched her cross out the word \"best\" and changed
it to \"beautiful\". So the sentence now reads as:

To memorize the beautiful times of our adolescence. (in Chinese,
纪念我们明丽的青春。)

***And so begins the spring and autumn of our beloved lab and youth.
Even better, our collective stories collection.***

Chronicles
==========

From iPack to Information Building
----------------------------------

*2020/8/21*

This Wednesday we had moved the lab from iPark to the Information
Building.

When we were packing staffs at iPark. I found one student was helping
us. He said he was guided by Professor Ding. He had finished
undergraduate education but faced one gap-year. I think it was unusual
for him to help us. He did not need to pack for himself, but he helped
our students out of kind heart.

Senior students had to say goodbye to iPark, where they studied for the
pasts years. [Feng Zhao](User:Zhaofeng_shu33 "wikilink") said, \"It is
difficult to express my feelings of departing exactly. This is also the
place where I met many good friends for the first time.\"

Teacher\'s Day
--------------

*2020/9/9*

We celebrated the Teacher\'s Day at one classroom. Today it seems
everything returns to normal. We discussed the anecdotes of professors,
making jokes on familiar students and so on.

Mid-autumn Festival
-------------------

*2020/10/9*

The mid-autumn festival overlapped with the National holiday this year.
They are both at October first and this phenomenon is called
\"celebrating the double festival\".

An unforgettable activity was hosted by Xinyi Tong, during which we
appreciated the beautiful moon light and talked leisurely on the open
platform of the 11th floor. A cultural game called \"Flowing flower
ditty\" was organized. Everyone said one classical Chinese verses
containing the character \"moon\"(月) and no repeat is allowed. It
became harder as common verses were spoken out. Xiangxiang Xu even used
some sentences from classical essays as a replacement. It is amazing
that the famous long poem called \"A Moonlit Night on the Spring River\"
(春江花月夜) contained the exact character \"moon\" almost every line.
It seemed that only Feng Zhao and Xinyu Liu, a postdoc student, had good
memory on this long poem. Finally Feng Zhao insisted to the last one by
using some unfamiliar verses.

Boy\'s Day
----------

*2020/11/11*

One-day tour to CUHK Shenzhen
-----------------------------

*2020/12/18*

Girl\'s Day
-----------

*2021/03/07*

Paper 惊浮世，红颜出紫霄。Code纷作阵，逸韵和欢遥。 by 耀辉

When paper shed in light, when beauty comes in sight, code inline,
happiness in rhythm, to the best of our time. by 含光

People
======

The Guard
---------

A guard of Information Building, who usually greet students when
students pass by.

Feng Zhao
---------

Weida told Feng an idiom called \"重剑无锋，大巧不工\" when facing with
the LDP homework. Xinyi think \"智丰无题\" can similarly describe Feng,
which means smart Feng is not able to do the homework.

Feng leaves for Beijing to begin his six months internship at Huawei on
June 28th.

Xinyi Tong
----------

### Zhihu

*2020/12/13*

Xinyi Tong was found quite diligent recently. He devoted his time to
debug the programming code and learned to write programs in deep
learning during this process. He also told Weida Wang and Feng Zhao that
he wanted to become a polymath. According to the understanding of Xinyi,
polymath is a person who know many things shallowly. \"The path to
become a polymath is reading zhihu.\" He said. \"But why don\'t you read
books, which have more systematic knowledge?\" Feng Zhao wondered. \"The
most important thing is through accumulation. Zhihu is better than
reading boring books.\" He revoked.

### Onmyoji

Xinyi was a gamer of Onmyoji and Prof. Huang knew it. He gave up this
game since he was prepared to devote himself to writing papers. Prof.
Huang asked why he gave up and \'why not give your account to me and let
me try\'.

\'This game needs regular long time every day so I have to.\'

\'So you always do so before starting this paper.\'

\'Roughly, yes.\'

\'That sucks.\'

Wanda Li
--------

### Flower Pie

*2020/9/18*

A few days ago, a 2020 master student, Wanda Li, distributed the flower
pies among all students of lab2c. She chose a time when there were few
students in the lab. \"I do not dare to be face to face with so many
people.\" said she.

Nan Shen
--------

A girl, who has some interest in ancient Chinese history.

Jin Sima
--------

*2021/2/2*

Last night we had dinner together, since Jin Sima will go home and
won\'t come back. As a visiting student in our lab, Sima has spent his
time with us for about half a year, and we have good relationship with
each other. Sima is going to finish his PhD thesis in the spring
semester and obtain his degree from Caltech. However, due to visa
restrictions, he has stayed in China for one and a half year.

Today is also special since it is the birthday of Xiangxiang Xu. So he
bought a cake and shared with us. Xiangxiang Xu is working as research
assistant in our lab from this autumn semester on. According to his
original plan, he would go to MIT and work as a post-doctor. But the
pandemic broke out and it becomes very hard to go abroad nowadays.

Xinchun Yu is an old post-doctor in our lab. He came here last month and
had a hard time to get familiar with his research topic.

Xinyi Tong is our old friend. He recommended this Hunan cuisine
restaurant. He is quite out-going and thinks of the possibility to
pursue his hobby in linguistics when he has enough money in the future.

Weida Wang has abandoned his submission plan for the coming conference
due to his inability to conduct computational experiment. Then he
becomes obsessed with video games in recent days.

During the dinner, Xiangxiang Xu thought of the first line of an
antithetical couplet: \"all tastes is difficult to cater for, but it
requires catering for all tastes\" (众口难调调众口). Xinyi Tong thought
it as a hard problem to give the second line. After a while, Jin Sima
gave a solution: \"spring light suddenly appears, indeed appearing is
spring light\" (春光乍现现春光). The next morning, xiangxiang gave his
own answer, \"no word is said but we need to say one word\"
(一言不发发一言) as the giving sentence to Sima. Then Jin Sima went
away, leaving us behind. \"Time flies. You guys will soon graduate.\"
Jin Sima said.

Xiangxiang Xu
-------------

Xiangxiang was worried about Xinyi and Weida\'s performance since they
were about to meet with Prof. Lizhong Zheng. He thought they had
actually done nothing and he performed better, because he only ate 67%
of the meals compared with those 2.

Xiangxiang Xu had come to MIT for his postdoc research position on 2021
July 24.

Topics
======

Battle between China and USA
----------------------------

*2020/12/05*

Xinyi Tong, Jin Sima and Feng Zhao talked in the lab about some big
topics. First about the modern history of China, including local history
of Changzhou, where Xinyi Tong was born. After that, we looked forward
to the future of China or other related country. We all agreed that
there will be a fierce competition between China and USA and it\'s
undetermined who will win at last. Besides, Xinyi Tong told us Chinese
government is not good at foreign affairs and many developed countries
are allied with US. After a while, Jian Xu came to his seat after the
rehearse of 12.9 singing competition. He wore a quite formal uniform
with a red butterfly knot in the position of his chest. Then Jian Xu
joined us but he talked very little. After analyzing the political
tendency of China, Xinyi Tong also gave his own opinion on the path for
China to defeat USA. \"Firstly we should become the largest economy in
the world. Maybe the accumulation of quantity will lead to the change of
quality. Secondly, we should find some newly developed domain and make
it the new growth point of our economy.\"

\"But I don\'t think the IT domain will bring fundamental change to the
economy.\" Feng Zhao uttered.

\"Yeah, Internet area is more targeted at service industry.\" Jin Sima
added.

So what will become the next growth point of China? We do not have a
unified conclusion. We all agree that Chinese government is focusing on
the stimulation of domestic consumption.

\"But the domestic cycle can not really bring the accumulation of
wealth, especially for the service industry.\" Feng Zhao said.

Jin Sima: \"We need to exploit other country to become No.1 in the
world. You can see the US use the finance lever to grab money from other
countries.\"

Soon we return to the original topic: why China had little chance to
defeat US in near future? As PhD students with engineering background,
we almost all agree that the lagging behind in high-tech is an important
factor. This may include material, mechanics, chemistry, physics, etc.
Nowadays overseas talents are welcomed by mainland research center.
\"Possibly they have the experience to find the secrets of technology
innovation.\" Jin Sima said.

Ancient Chinese History
-----------------------

*2020/12/12*

This evening Feng Zhao, Nan Shen and Xinyi Tong talked about ancient
Chinese history. The focus was on the late history of Ming dynasty.
Xinyi Tong reported that he read parts of \"Veritable Records of the
Ming Shenzong\" (明神宗实录), and tended to analyze the problem with
respect to the regional difference and economic factors. Nan Shen talked
the least. What she mentioned was mostly related to some basic
historical facts, which were hardly known by Feng Zhao and Xinyi Tong.
The part Feng Zhao disliked about Xinyi Tong was Xinyi Tong\'s reference
to the opinions from Zhihu platform. Though Feng Zhao admitted that
there were some genius who answered questions in history domain, many
answers were hearsays which were not grounded.

\"Reading academic books on history is not an easy task.\" Feng Zhao
wondered.

\"But you only need to find the part which interests you most.\" Nan
Shen answered.

Spring Poetic Couplet
---------------------

At the 2021 Spring Festival, we have our own office. The students
hanging on during the last days before Spring Festival worked together
to write the couplets. There were 2.

1

`世间代码皆肝遍`\
`往圣文章尽读来`\
`打工人上人`

2

`岁去天涯寻大道`\
`春来此地会群英`\
`新年再见`

Recommendation of Girlfriend
----------------------------

2021/5/21 Another version of the same story is available at
<https://shimo.im/docs/HcpYrx8TvvcjWQGH/>.

After the celebration dinner for Xinyi Tong\'s birthday, others went
back to the lab, while Feng Zhao accompanied Xinyi to buy some eating in
the nearby supermarket. Since there were only two persons, so Feng used
this opportunity to retell the possibility of recommending a girlfriend
to Xinyi. Xinyi had no incentive to do so. After finding no interesting
point from Feng\'s oral description of his female friend, he refused to
have the first meeting. Xinyi asked Feng what the hobbies of her were,
but Feng could not tell exactly. In fact, Feng emphasized on the
promising career of her\-\-- financial engineering, and their matched
experiences: undergraduate education in Tsinghua University. But Xinyi
did not care much about these conditions, and thought there were no
topics to start the relationship. He pointed out the girl Feng
recommended never showed her wechat moments, which justified they were
not of the same type. Feng argued with Xinyi not to judge her by a
single rule. Then the topic came to whether Feng was familiar with the
heart of Xinyi. Indeed, Feng thought he shared many similarities with
Xinyi. But to the motivation behind the hobbies the two students shared,
it may be quite different. Feng guess the life attitude of Xinyi was
between the idealism and hedonism. Xinyi declared that he tends to be
hedonic. \"Learning ancient Chinese makes me happy. This happiness has
no difference with the pleasure playing computer games brought to me.\"
Xinyi explained the underlining plausibility behind his philosophy. Feng
argued for a different interpretation of \"hedonism\" by emphasizing on
different layers of hobbies. In Feng\'s view, hobbies or activities are
put on different levels of a huge pyramid. Less people undertake it, the
higher its position will be. Xinyi admitted that this standard came from
matter of fact, but insisted on the similarity of feeling obtained from
the activities. He said, \"When I was busy, I played games for leisure.
When I was not busy, I could study classical Chinese. That\'s all their
difference.\"

\"Apart from mental pleasure, does the satisfactory feeling consist of
other components?\" Feng asked and explained further, \"For example,
when you were fans of Beijing opera. You found pleasure from
appreciating the show, but you also felt a sense of mission to impart
this quintessence to the next generation.\"

\"No sense, I didn\'t have such strange feeling when I was studying
classical Chinese.\" Xinyi replied. \"Maybe it is your mindset. You
learn foreign languages because these hobbies were at the top of your
imaginary pyramid. The more you are capable of, the more superior you
feel above others.\"

Feng partially accepted the analysis of Xinyi, and said to him: \"Not
really, the motivation for learning foreign languages is complex. So why
do you learn Japanese?\"

\"That was because I came into contact with Japanese culture in early
ages. Then I knew a lot about ancient history of Japan.\"

\...

When the two students returned to the lab, the discussion didn\'t end.
The crucial question becomes whether Xinyi and Feng were very similar.
In Xinyi\'s view, they are totally different types. But Feng insisted
that they are similar, especially in the domain of interests. Xinyi
retorted that he spent more time in game and TV series than more
\"elegant\" hobbies, while Feng put more weight on the hobbies at the
higher level of the pyramid. At this time, Jian Xu, whose seat was just
opposite to that of Xinyi, made a comment, \"games are likely to spoil
your image when you are exposed to strangers. Besides, hobbies like
games have less nutrition than others like reading literary books. The
latter is like looking upwards to the sky.\"

Feng agreed with the comments of Jian Xu, and asked Xinyi, \"Would you
like to show your hobbies of gaming and those of reading
simultaneously?\"

\"Of course! But you type don\'t like the former one. Indeed, nowadays
seldom likes to play a game called \'Gujian\'.\"

\"I think you put too much emphasis on the share of hobbies. When you
grow older, this factor becomes less important when choosing a
girlfriend.\" Feng said to Xinyi.

\"I admitted your point. Maybe that\'s why you tell me you could still
get along with your current girlfriend even though you two share few
common hobbies.\" Xinyi replied.

At this time, Weida agreed with Xinyi, \"That\'s true. The girlfriend of
brother Feng is a research lover.\"

During the hot discussion, it was gradually realized that the plan of
girlfriend recommendation failed on the side of Xinyi. It seems that
Xinyi has never established romantic relationship with female students
before. As a result, he looks forward to a kind of romance in which he
really falls in love to a girl. This should be better caused by accident
instead of the brute force method through the power of go-between. The
difference between the romantic love view and realistic one is clear.
When people are young, they tend to believe in the first one. That is,
true love exists, and the couple can strengthen their relationship by
common hobby. However, when people grow older, especially when they
obtained more experiences in intimate relationships, they become more
realistic. To some sense, The latter view should not be called \"true
love\". It is actually a compromise under the pressure of reality. Under
such compromise, the most important factor then becomes that both sides
have similar educational experiences and promising career. Other
realistic factors also matter. But common hobbies are the least
important.

Once entering the so-called \"love market\", people would find the
realistic view is more common. For most people, it seems inevitable that
the romantic view would faded to the realistic compromise. Xinyi was
still young. He has to experience the sweet and torture of romantic love
before he realized the invisible power behind the modern society. In
such sense, his choice of rejection should be respected, and his good
friends wish he could start a romantic relationship soon.
